.TH NOBA 1 "March 2026" "Nobara Automation Suite" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
noba \- central command for the Nobara Automation Suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B noba
\fIcommand\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Nobara Automation Suite is a collection of Bash scripts to automate common tasks on Fedora/Nobara systems.
.B noba
provides a unified command‑line interface to all scripts, configuration, and system checks.

All scripts share a common library
.B noba-lib.sh
and a central YAML configuration file at
.IR ~/.config/noba/config.yaml .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup
Run the interactive setup script (checks dependencies, installs packages, creates config, sets up timers).
.TP
.B config
View or edit the unified configuration.
If no argument is given, the current config is printed to stdout.
With
.BR \-\-edit " or " \-e ,
it opens the config file in your default editor (as set by
.BR $EDITOR " or " $VISUAL ).
.TP
.B list
List all available scripts in the installation directory (excluding library and setup scripts).
.TP
.B doctor
Run system diagnostics (invokes
.BR config-check.sh ).
.TP
.BR run " \fIscript\fR [\fIoptions\fR]"
Directly run a script by its short name or filename.
Common short names:
.RS
.TP
.B backup
\fBbackup-to-nas.sh\fR
.TP
.B verify
\fBbackup-verifier.sh\fR
.TP
.B checksum
\fBchecksum.sh\fR
.TP
.B disk
\fBdisk-sentinel.sh\fR
.TP
.B images2pdf
\fBimages-to-pdf.sh\fR
.TP
.B organize
\fBorganize-downloads.sh\fR
.TP
.B undo
\fBundo-organizer.sh\fR
.TP
.B motd
\fBmotd-generator.sh\fR
.TP
.B dashboard
\fBnoba-dashboard.sh\fR
.TP
.B web
\fBnoba-web.sh\fR
.RE
Any additional options are passed directly to the script.
.TP
.B help
Show this help message.
.TP
.B version
Show version information.
.SH OPTIONS
Options for specific commands are described under each command.
Global options
.B \-\-help
and
.B \-\-version
are available for all commands.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/noba/config.yaml
Central configuration file in YAML format.
An example can be found at
.IR /etc/noba/config.yaml.example
after installation.
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/
Default installation directory for scripts.
.TP
.I ~/.config/systemd/user/
Location of user‑level systemd unit files (timers and services).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR, VISUAL
Specify the editor used by
.B noba config \-\-edit.
If neither is set,
.B nano
is used as a fallback.
.TP
.B NOBA_CONFIG
Override the default path to the configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B noba setup
Run the setup script to check dependencies and create a default config.
.TP
.B noba config \-\-edit
Open the configuration file in your editor.
.TP
.B noba list
Show all available scripts.
.TP
.B noba doctor
Run a dependency and configuration health check.
.TP
.B noba run backup \-\-dry-run
Perform a dry‑run of the backup script (simulate without transferring files).
.TP
.B noba run organize \-\-help
Show help for the download organizer script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR backup-to-nas.sh (1),
.BR disk-sentinel.sh (1),
.BR organize-downloads.sh (1),
.BR noba-web.sh (1),
and the project
.B README.md
for a full list of scripts and configuration details.
.SH AUTHOR
Raizen <raizen@example.com>
and contributors.
The project is hosted at https://github.com/raizenica/noba-ce
